README.md, before:

# My Data Toolbox

> A modern web application to generate realistic JSON test data, anonymize sensitive fields, validate and query JSON, and work with Swagger/OpenAPI.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-18.0%2B-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9%2B-blue.svg)](https://python.org)
[![Vercel](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vercel-Deployed-black.svg)](https://vercel.com)

## 📸 Screenshots

> Place screenshots in `screenshots/` as described in `screenshots/README.md`.

- Main Interface — sidebar + content
- Data Generation — skeleton to generated JSON
- Data Anonymization — before/after preview
- Configuration — dialogs and options
- Preview — formatted output

## ✨ Features

- Generate realistic data from JSON skeletons (Python engine, Faker)
- Optional Swagger/OpenAPI constraints during generation
- JSON anonymization (preserve structure/relationships)
- JSON validation and pretty-print
- JSONPath querying with live evaluation
- Convert JSON example → OpenAPI schema (helper)
- Build skeletons from OpenAPI schemas (helper)
- Modern UI: dark/light themes, i18n (EN/FR/KO)

## 🧱 Tech Stack

**Frontend:**
- React 18 + TypeScript, Vite 5, Tailwind CSS, shadcn/ui
- i18next (internationalisation), Lucide React (icônes), JSONPath-Plus

**Backend:**
- Python 3.9+ serverless functions on Vercel
- Flask handlers for API endpoints
- Python modules: `faker`, `pyyaml`, `jsonschema`, `openapi-spec-validator`

**Infrastructure:**
- Vercel (hosting + serverless functions)
- GitHub (CI/CD)

## 🗂️ Project Structure

```
my-data-toolbox/
├─ api/                     # Vercel serverless functions (Python)
│  ├─ generate.py          # POST /api/generate
│  ├─ anonymize.py         # POST /api/anonymize
│  └─ analyze.py           # POST /api/analyze
├─ src/                     # Frontend React (Web)
│  ├─ components/
│  │  ├─ views/            # Generate / Anonymize / Swagger / Validator / JSONPath
│  │  └─ ui/               # shadcn/ui components
│  ├─ hooks/
│  ├─ locales/             # i18n resources (en, fr, ko)
│  ├─ lib/                  # API client, utilities
│  ├─ globals.css
│  └─ main.tsx
├─ lib/                     # Python modules (shared)
│  ├─ data_generator.py
│  ├─ data_anonymizer.py
│  ├─ json_processor.py
│  └─ swagger_parser.py
├─ examples/                # Sample skeletons and swagger specs
├─ docs/                    # Plan & release notes
└─ screenshots/             # Marketing screenshots
```

## 🔧 Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0+ (required by Vite 5)
- Python 3.9+ (for local development)
- npm or yarn

## 🚀 Quick Start (Development)

### Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Install Python dependencies (for local testing):
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:5173`

### Testing Serverless Functions Locally

To test the Python serverless functions locally, use Vercel CLI:

```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel dev
```

This will start a local server that simulates the Vercel environment.

## 📦 Build & Distribution

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

This creates an optimized production build in the `dist/` directory.

### Deploy to Vercel

Il existe deux méthodes pour déployer automatiquement sur Vercel :

#### Méthode 1 : Intégration native Vercel (Recommandée)

1. **Connecter votre dépôt GitHub:**
   - Allez sur [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
   - Importez votre dépôt GitHub
   - Vercel détectera automatiquement les paramètres du projet

2. **Configurer les variables d'environnement (si nécessaire):**
   - Allez dans les paramètres du projet sur Vercel
   - Ajoutez les variables d'environnement requises

3. **Déploiement automatique:**
   - Vercel déploiera automatiquement à chaque push sur la branche `main`
   - Des déploiements de preview sont créés pour les pull requests

L'application sera disponible à `https://your-project.vercel.app`

#### Méthode 2 : GitHub Actions (Alternative)

Si vous préférez utiliser GitHub Actions pour le déploiement, configurez les secrets suivants dans votre dépôt GitHub :

1. **Obtenir les identifiants Vercel:**
   - Allez sur [Vercel Settings > Tokens](https://vercel.com/account/tokens)
   - Créez un nouveau token et copiez-le
   - Allez dans les paramètres de votre projet Vercel pour obtenir `ORG_ID` et `PROJECT_ID`

2. **Configurer les secrets GitHub:**
   - Allez dans `Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions` de votre dépôt GitHub
   - Ajoutez les secrets suivants :
     - `VERCEL_TOKEN` : votre token Vercel
     - `VERCEL_ORG_ID` : l'ID de votre organisation Vercel
     - `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` : l'ID de votre projet Vercel

3. **Déploiement automatique:**
   - Le workflow `.github/workflows/vercel-deploy.yml` se déclenchera automatiquement à chaque push sur `main`
   - Le déploiement en production sera effectué automatiquement

### Manual Deployment

```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel
```

## 🧪 Available NPM Scripts

```bash
npm run dev      # Start development server (Vite)
npm run build    # Build for production
npm run preview  # Preview production build locally
npm run lint     # Run ESLint
```

## 🌐 API Endpoints

The application exposes the following REST API endpoints:

### POST /api/generate

Generate JSON data from a skeleton.

**Request:**
```json
{
  "skeleton": { ... },
  "swagger": { ... },  // optional
  "options": {
    "count": 5,
    "seed": 42,
    "locale": "en_US"
  }
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... },
  "metadata": {
    "generatedAt": "2025-11-25T10:30:00Z",
    "itemCount": 5
  }
}
```

### POST /api/anonymize

Anonymize sensitive data in JSON.

**Request:**
```json
{
  "data": { ... },
  "options": {
    "locale": "en_US"
  }
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... },
  "metadata": {
    "anonymizedFields": 12,
    "processedAt": "2025-11-25T10:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

### POST /api/analyze

Analyze sensitive fields in JSON data.

**Request:**
```json
{
  "data": { ... }
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "sensitiveFields": ["user.email", "user.phone"],
  "totalFields": 2
}
```

## 🗺️ Roadmap

See `docs/plan.md` for the current roadmap (accounts, sync, updates, tests, etc.).

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

- **"npm command not found"**: Install Node.js from `https://nodejs.org`, then verify with `node --version`.
- **Build fails**: Ensure Node.js 18+ is installed and all dependencies are installed with `npm install`.
- **API errors**: Check browser console for error messages. Ensure the serverless functions are properly deployed on Vercel.
- **Local development issues**: Make sure Vite dev server is running on port 5173. Check for port conflicts.

## 🔄 Migration from Electron Version

If you were using the Electron desktop version:

- **File operations**: Now handled via browser File API (drag-and-drop or file picker)
- **No local file system access**: Files must be imported/exported through the browser
- **Same functionality**: All features are preserved, just accessed through a web interface
- **Better accessibility**: Works on any device with a modern browser

## 🙌 Acknowledgments

- UI design inspired by Acreom
- shadcn/ui, Radix UI, Lucide Icons
- Electron, Vite, Tailwind CSS
- Faker, JSONPath-Plus

## 📄 License

MIT — see `LICENSE`.

## 💬 Support

- Issues: `https://github.com/jeoste/my-data-toolbox/issues`
- Discussions: `https://github.com/jeoste/my-data-toolbox/discussions`
- Contact: jeoffrey.stephan.pro@gmail.com

Commit message:

Enhance error handling and user feedback in data generation and validation views
- Improved error handling in the Anonymize, Generate, Random JSON, and XML views to prevent duplicate error messages and provide clearer feedback.
- Updated UI components to enhance layout consistency and responsiveness across various views.
- Added localization support for success messages upon file download.
- Refactored API client to handle various HTTP error statuses and provide more informative error messages.
- Updated README to clarify local development modes and API endpoint behavior.

README.md, after:

# My Data Toolbox

> A modern web application to generate realistic JSON test data, anonymize sensitive fields, validate and query JSON, and work with Swagger/OpenAPI.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-18.0%2B-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9%2B-blue.svg)](https://python.org)
[![Vercel](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vercel-Deployed-black.svg)](https://vercel.com)

## 📸 Screenshots

> Place screenshots in `screenshots/` as described in `screenshots/README.md`.

- Main Interface — sidebar + content
- Data Generation — skeleton to generated JSON
- Data Anonymization — before/after preview
- Configuration — dialogs and options
- Preview — formatted output

## ✨ Features

- Generate realistic data from JSON skeletons (Python engine, Faker)
- Optional Swagger/OpenAPI constraints during generation
- JSON anonymization (preserve structure/relationships)
- JSON validation and pretty-print
- JSONPath querying with live evaluation
- Convert JSON example → OpenAPI schema (helper)
- Build skeletons from OpenAPI schemas (helper)
- Modern UI: dark/light themes, i18n (EN/FR/KO)

## 🧱 Tech Stack

**Frontend:**
- React 18 + TypeScript, Vite 5, Tailwind CSS, shadcn/ui
- i18next (internationalisation), Lucide React (icônes), JSONPath-Plus

**Backend:**
- Python 3.9+ serverless functions on Vercel
- Flask handlers for API endpoints
- Python modules: `faker`, `pyyaml`, `jsonschema`, `openapi-spec-validator`

**Infrastructure:**
- Vercel (hosting + serverless functions)
- GitHub (CI/CD)

## 🗂️ Project Structure

```
my-data-toolbox/
├─ api/                     # Vercel serverless functions (Python)
│  ├─ generate.py          # POST /api/generate
│  ├─ anonymize.py         # POST /api/anonymize
│  └─ analyze.py           # POST /api/analyze
├─ src/                     # Frontend React (Web)
│  ├─ components/
│  │  ├─ views/            # Generate / Anonymize / Swagger / Validator / JSONPath
│  │  └─ ui/               # shadcn/ui components
│  ├─ hooks/
│  ├─ locales/             # i18n resources (en, fr, ko)
│  ├─ lib/                  # API client, utilities
│  ├─ globals.css
│  └─ main.tsx
├─ lib/                     # Python modules (shared)
│  ├─ data_generator.py
│  ├─ data_anonymizer.py
│  ├─ json_processor.py
│  └─ swagger_parser.py
├─ examples/                # Sample skeletons and swagger specs
├─ docs/                    # Plan & release notes
└─ screenshots/             # Marketing screenshots
```

## 🔧 Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0+ (required by Vite 5)
- Python 3.9+ (for local development)
- npm or yarn

## 🚀 Quick Start (Development)

### Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Install Python dependencies (for local testing):
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. UI-only mode (Vite dev server):
```bash
npm run dev
```

The React application will be available at `http://localhost:5173`.
In this mode, only the **frontend** is running. Calls to `/api/*` are
expected to fail locally (404) unless they target a deployed Vercel
environment.

4. Full‑stack mode (frontend + Python serverless APIs):

To test the Python serverless functions locally, use Vercel CLI:

```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel dev
```

This will start a local server (usually `http://localhost:3000`) that
simulates the full Vercel environment: the React app and all `/api/*.py`
endpoints (`/api/generate`, `/api/anonymize`, etc.).

## 📦 Build & Distribution

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

This creates an optimized production build in the `dist/` directory.

### Deploy to Vercel

Il existe deux méthodes pour déployer automatiquement sur Vercel :

#### Méthode 1 : Intégration native Vercel (Recommandée)

1. **Connecter votre dépôt GitHub:**
   - Allez sur [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
   - Importez votre dépôt GitHub
   - Vercel détectera automatiquement les paramètres du projet

2. **Configurer les variables d'environnement (si nécessaire):**
   - Allez dans les paramètres du projet sur Vercel
   - Ajoutez les variables d'environnement requises

3. **Déploiement automatique:**
   - Vercel déploiera automatiquement à chaque push sur la branche `main`
   - Des déploiements de preview sont créés pour les pull requests

L'application sera disponible à `https://your-project.vercel.app`

#### Méthode 2 : GitHub Actions (Alternative)

Si vous préférez utiliser GitHub Actions pour le déploiement, configurez les secrets suivants dans votre dépôt GitHub :

1. **Obtenir les identifiants Vercel:**
   - Allez sur [Vercel Settings > Tokens](https://vercel.com/account/tokens)
   - Créez un nouveau token et copiez-le
   - Allez dans les paramètres de votre projet Vercel pour obtenir `ORG_ID` et `PROJECT_ID`

2. **Configurer les secrets GitHub:**
   - Allez dans `Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions` de votre dépôt GitHub
   - Ajoutez les secrets suivants :
     - `VERCEL_TOKEN` : votre token Vercel
     - `VERCEL_ORG_ID` : l'ID de votre organisation Vercel
     - `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` : l'ID de votre projet Vercel

3. **Déploiement automatique:**
   - Le workflow `.github/workflows/vercel-deploy.yml` se déclenchera automatiquement à chaque push sur `main`
   - Le déploiement en production sera effectué automatiquement

### Manual Deployment

```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel
```

## 🧪 Available NPM Scripts

```bash
npm run dev      # Start development server (Vite)
npm run build    # Build for production
npm run preview  # Preview production build locally
npm run lint     # Run ESLint
```

## 🌐 API Endpoints

The application exposes the following REST API endpoints:

### POST /api/generate

Generate JSON data from a skeleton.

**Request:**
```json
{
  "skeleton": { ... },
  "swagger": { ... },  // optional
  "options": {
    "count": 5,
    "seed": 42,
    "locale": "en_US"
  }
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... },
  "metadata": {
    "generatedAt": "2025-11-25T10:30:00Z",
    "itemCount": 5
  }
}
```

### POST /api/anonymize

Anonymize sensitive data in JSON.

**Request:**
```json
{
  "data": { ... },
  "options": {
    "locale": "en_US"
  }
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... },
  "metadata": {
    "anonymizedFields": 12,
    "processedAt": "2025-11-25T10:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

### POST /api/analyze

Analyze sensitive fields in JSON data.

**Request:**
```json
{
  "data": { ... }
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "sensitiveFields": ["user.email", "user.phone"],
  "totalFields": 2
}
```

## 🗺️ Roadmap

See `docs/plan.md` for the current roadmap (accounts, sync, updates, tests, etc.).

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

- **\"npm command not found\"**: Install Node.js from `https://nodejs.org`, then verify with `node --version`.
- **Build fails**: Ensure Node.js 18+ is installed and all dependencies are installed with `npm install`.
- **API errors in production**: Check browser console for error messages. Ensure the serverless functions are properly deployed on Vercel.
- **API `/api/*` returning 404 in local dev**: This is expected when using `npm run dev` (frontend only). Use `vercel dev` to run the full stack locally (frontend + Python APIs), or point the app to a deployed Vercel instance.
- **Local development issues**: Make sure Vite dev server is running on port 5173. Check for port conflicts.

## 🔄 Migration from Electron Version

If you were using the Electron desktop version:

- **File operations**: Now handled via browser File API (drag-and-drop or file picker)
- **No local file system access**: Files must be imported/exported through the browser
- **Same functionality**: All features are preserved, just accessed through a web interface
- **Better accessibility**: Works on any device with a modern browser

## 🙌 Acknowledgments

- UI design inspired by Acreom
- shadcn/ui, Radix UI, Lucide Icons
- Electron, Vite, Tailwind CSS
- Faker, JSONPath-Plus

## 📄 License

MIT — see `LICENSE`.

## 💬 Support

- Issues: `https://github.com/jeoste/my-data-toolbox/issues`
- Discussions: `https://github.com/jeoste/my-data-toolbox/discussions`
- Contact: jeoffrey.stephan.pro@gmail.com
